Phonegap + Sencha Touch + Flickr

Cross platform mobile application development has never been easier!
Right, maybe it seems too much offensive but I assure you that it’s much more easy these days. Especially for Javascript developers.
With Phonegap, you can develop applications on iPhone/iTouch, Android, Blackberry, Palm, Windows Mobile and Symbian. All features are not available for all of these platforms yet but you can develop really good applications on iPhone and Android.
At that point, the question is that “How can we make our Phonegap applications look more iPhone/Android style?” We have different solutions for that.

    * Sencha Touch
    * jQuery Mobile
    * jQTouch

You can try and learn how to use them yourself. Here, I’m going to talk about Sencha Touch. With Sencha Touch, you can make iPhone/Android applications look like just native applications. Same components, same behaviours, etc. Besides all you need to do is nothing but using your experience on Javascript.
In this article, I’m going to help you to create your first cross platform mobile application with Phonegap, Sencha Touch and Flickr API.

We’re starting with Sencha Touch part. Sencha Touch development is based on hierarchical components architecture. You can check the components on their offical API documentation website. In this sample application, I have a few Panel components as containers and some buttons for actions. To communicate with Flickr REST API, we need permission from the user. For that purpose, I created Settings page.
There is also SQLite implementation for storing session data. You can find the source code of it at Gist. To provide Flickr implementation I just created a Javascript client which is also available in source code. It’s hardly depended to some part of my application but with a few modification you can make it work for your own applications.
In Phonegap part of the application I use camera feature. As on that page we can reach camera via Phonegap.
In the end, all we need to do is install our web based cross platform mobile application to our device through Phonegap.
